examples/Test Keywords.md, before:


### Default Keywords

TODO this is todo
DOING this is doing
DONE this is done
NOW this is now
IN-PROGRESS this is in progress
LATER this is later
WAIT this is wait
WAITING this is waiting
CANCELED this is canceled
CANCELLED this is cancelled
### Custom keywords

##### Active task keywords 

STARTED this is a custom **active** keyword for a started task
##### Inactive task keywords

FIXME this is a custom inactive keyword for a FIXME task
HACK this is a custom inactive keyword for a HACK task
课题 this is a custom inactive keyword in Chinese
🤔 this is a custom inactive keyword using an emoji
##### Waiting tasks keywords

ON-HOLD this is a custom **waiting** keyword for a on-hold tasks
##### Completed task keywords

NEVER this is a custom **completed** keyword for a never do task
##### Archived task keywords

ARCHIVED this is a custom **completed** keyword for an archived task
#### Not a keyword

BOGUS this is not a custom keyword

---

```todoseq
search: file:"Test Keywords"
sort: keyword
```

Commit message:

feat: add support for archived tasks,Fixes #37, Fixes #43

examples/Test Keywords.md, after:


### Default Keywords

TODO this is todo
DOING this is doing
DONE this is done
NOW this is now
IN-PROGRESS this is in progress
LATER this is later
WAIT this is wait
WAITING this is waiting
CANCELED this is canceled
CANCELLED this is cancelled
### Custom keywords

##### Active task keywords 

STARTED this is a custom **active** keyword for a started task
##### Inactive task keywords

FIXME this is a custom inactive keyword for a FIXME task
HACK this is a custom inactive keyword for a HACK task
课题 this is a custom inactive keyword in Chinese
🤔 this is a custom inactive keyword using an emoji
##### Waiting tasks keywords

ON-HOLD this is a custom **waiting** keyword for a on-hold tasks
##### Completed task keywords

NEVER this is a custom **completed** keyword for a never do task
##### Archived task keywords

*Archived tasks do not appear in the task list or task search*

- [ ] ARCHIVED this is a custom **completed** keyword for an archived task
- [x] OLD out of date task

#### Not a keyword

BOGUS this is not a custom keyword

---

```todoseq
search: file:"Test Keywords"
sort: keyword
```
